PO: I want to store a confidential document. I want to make sure this location is not reachable from internet.
Developer: Sure, I can create a virtual machine in a private NW and give you a folder
Developer: I have this VM for you, there is no SSH, there is no route to reach this machine from internet.
PO: Thank you - store important data.


Few days gone:
PO: I need a small web app that would allow me to ping a IP and check if it's reachable or not from my server
Developer: No problem, I will find some thing on internet and host it for you.

PO : Wait wait - will it expose my important data
Developer : No No - I will run the app in a container so it can not access any data on the host.
            Also the webserver is not a root user so don't worry

Developer : Lookup on internet and found cnappeval/dvwa:5
            This is an internal utility so not to worry

PO : It has got so much more functionality should we contact digital security
Developer: Don't worry, we are not using anything other than ping. We don't need to owrry about it's security

PO : Okay thank you.

Attacker : Open a listener
Attacker : Inject a command to initiate request from webApp to attack machine
Attacker : Elevate user to root
Attacker : Start a new container with host file system mounted
Attacker : Control the host file system

PO : How did this happen, my developer says there is no route from internet to my server ?
Security: A return path to any server initiated request does not need ingress from internet ?

PO : Why did the WAF not stop attacker ?
Security : WAF stands infront of attacker initiated connection not server initiated connection ?


Take away:
Attacker will not use the funtionality based on your usecase. Attacker will abuse the functionality to achive his goals.
Restricting your container is good idea, but super user permissions can open up other unrestricted actions


How can security help me:
1. Code Scan - on the application would highlight the command injection and stop attacker from starting a connection from server.
2. Container Scan - would clearly warn against vulnerabilities and use of root user in container
3. IaC Scan - would find the misconfigurations in Dockerfile and compose







